\# Lead Scoring Case Study

Problem Statement: An education company named X Education sells online courses to industry professionals. On any given day, many professionals who are interested in the courses land on their website and browse for courses.

On numerous websites and search engines like Google, the firm advertises its courses. Upon arriving at the website, these visitors may browse the courses, submit a form for the course, or watch some videos. These folks are categorised as leads when they fill out a form with their phone number or email address. Additionally, the business receives leads from earlier recommendations. Once these leads are obtained, sales team members begin calling, sending emails, etc. Some leads are converted during this procedure, but most are not. At X Education, the normal lead conversion rate is roughly 30%.

X Education currently has an extremely low lead conversion rate despite receiving a large number of leads. For instance, only approximately 30 of 100 leads they could gather in a day might actually be converted. The business wants to identify the most promising leads, often known as "Hot Leads," in order to increase the efficiency of this process. The lead conversion rate should increase if they are successful in locating this group of leads because the sales staff will be spending more time speaking with potential leads rather than calling everyone. The following funnel can be used to describe a typical lead conversion process:

Process for converting leads that is shown as a funnel As you can see, a lot of leads are created in the first stage (top), but only a small number of them turn into paying clients in the second step. To increase lead conversion, you must properly nurture the potential leads during the middle stage (e.g., by educating the leads about the product and maintaining ongoing communication).

You have been asked by X Education to assist them in choosing the leads that have the best chance of becoming paying clients. The business wants you to create a model in which you give each lead a lead score so that leads with higher lead scores have a better chance of converting, while leads with lower lead scores have a lesser chance of converting. The desired lead conversion rate has been estimated by the CEO to be in the range of 80%.

You have access to a leads dataset from the past that has about 9000 data points. The properties in this dataset, which include Lead Source, Total Time Spent on Website, Total Visits, Last Activity, and others, may or may not be important in determining whether a lead will be converted in the end. The column labelled "Converted" in this instance serves as the target variable and indicates whether or not a previous lead was converted, with 1 denoting conversion and 0 denoting non-conversion. The data dictionary included in the zip folder at the bottom of the page has extra information about the dataset. The levels that are present in the categorical variables are another thing that you should look out for. A level called "Select" is present in many categorical variables and must be handled because (guess why) it is equivalent to a null value.

Goals of the Case Study: There are quite a few goals for this case study.

Create a logistic regression model to provide each lead a lead score between 0 and 100 that the business may use to target potential prospects. In contrast, a lower number would indicate that the lead is chilly and unlikely to convert, while a higher score would indicate that the lead is hot and most likely to convert. You will also need to deal with some additional issues that the firm has raised and that your model should be prepared to address if the company's requirements change in the future. These issues are offered in a different doc file. Please complete it using the logistic regression model you obtained in step one. Also, make sure you include this in your final PPT where you'll make recommendations.

Results anticipated: At least the logistic regression model, conversion forecasts, and evaluation metrics in a well-commented Jupyter note. The word document contains all of the problems' solutions. The presentation's overall method of analysis simply describe the issue and the method used for analysis. Describe the findings in business terms. Include visuals and outline the presentation's most significant findings. 500-word summary report that provides a quick overview of your progress on the project and the lessons you learned.
